Cluster Components
Kubernetes Proxy
The Kubernetes proxy is responsible for routing network traffic to loadbalanced services in the Kubernetes cluster. To do its job, the proxy must be
present on every node in the cluster
Kubernetes DNS
Kubernetes also runs a DNS server, which provides naming and discovery for the services that are defined in the cluster. This DNS server also runs as
a replicated service on the cluster

Kubernetes uses namespaces to organize objects in the cluster. You can think of each namespace as a folder that holds a set of objects. By default,
the kubectl command-line tool interacts with the default namespace. If you want to use a different namespace, you can pass kubectl the --
namespace flag. 


Contexts
If you want to change the default namespace more permanently, you can use a context. This gets recorded in a kubectl configuration file, usually
located at $HOME/.kube/config

kubectl config set-context my-context --namespace=mystuff
kubectl config use-context my-context

Creating, Updating, and Destroying
Kubernetes Objects
Objects in the Kubernetes API are represented as JSON or YAML files
You can use these YAML or JSON
files to create, update, or delete objects on the Kubernetes server.
kubectl apply -f obj.yaml
after you make changes to the object, you can use the apply
command again to update the object:
$ kubectl apply -f obj.yaml

If the objects you are creating already exist in the cluster, it will simply exit successfully without making any changes

If you want to see what the apply command will do without actually making the changes, you can use the --dry-run flag to print the objects
to the terminal without actually sending them to the server The apply command also records the history of previous configurations in
an annotation within the object. You can manipulate these records with the  edit-last-applied, set-last-applied, and view-lastapplied commands. 

When you want to delete an object, you can simply run:
$ kubectl delete -f obj.yaml

Debugging Commands
to see the logs for a running container:
$ kubectl logs <pod-name>
If you have multiple containers in your Pod, you can choose the container to view using the -c flag.
By default, kubectl logs lists the current logs and exits

You can also use the exec command to execute a command in a running
container:
$ kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -- bash
If you don’t have bash or some other terminal available within your container, you can always attach to the running process:
$ kubectl attach -it <pod-name>

copy files to and from a container using the cp command:
$ kubectl cp <pod-name>:</path/to/remote/file>
</path/to/local/file>

If you want to access your Pod via the network, you can use the portforward command to forward network traffic from the local machine to
the Pod
kubectl port-forward <pod-name> 8080:80
opens up a connection that forwards traffic from the local machine on port 8080 to the remote container on port 80.

If you want to view Kubernetes events, you can use the kubectl get events command to see a list of the latest 10 events on all objects in a
given namespace.
$ kubectl get events

if you are interested in how your cluster is using resources, you can use the top command to see the list of resources in use by either nodes or
Pods. This command:
kubectl top nodes
will display the total CPU and memory in use by the nodes in terms of both absolute units (e.g., cores) and percentage of available resources (e.g., total
number of cores). Similarly, this command:
kubectl top pods
will show all Pods and their resource usage. By default it only displays Pods in the current namespace, but you can add the --all-namespaces
flag to see resource usage by all Pods in the cluster.
